Emily Michaels
25 Surrey Lane, Atlanta, GA 11111

E: emichaels@anymail P: 555-437-2891

Professional Summary
Analytical and detail oriented Android app developer professional with stellar communication skills. Adept at bringing all team members together to reach a common goal on time and under budget. Conceptualizing app solutions with the latest technology, design theory, and a large dose of creativity. Committed to viable and easily functional app solutions for clients.

Skills
Expert at Java SDK design functionality, including the full activity lifecycle
Clear and concise writer of communications and development documentation
Knowledgeable about back-end development and documentation
Enthusiastic facilitator for client solutions
Analytical user of GIT version control implementation
Consummate collaborator with clients, management, and team members
Work Experience
Junior Android Developer2014 – Present


Respond to client needs for applications with an eye to the most feasible and effective solutions.
Coordinate with team members to create client apps in a coordinated and timely manner.
Ensure that apps are tested to meet total performance requirements.
Optimize the interfacing of the apps with a variety of systems to ensure flexible and agile use.


Associate Android Developer2012 – 2014


Utilized advanced functions of the Java software development kit (SDK) in order to optimize the flexibility of apps to different mobile devices.
Recorded exact details of errors during testing for further remediation.
Checked on all source code to ensure usability by development staff.
Created increased mobile adaptability for current apps in order to extend marketability.


IT Support Associate2011 – 2012

Provided phone support for employees who had trouble with their Java software functions.
Retrieved system information for users.
Compiled a user-friendly employee guide for interfacing with Java.


Internet Fluency Teacher2009-2011

Taught seniors to be fluent in using the internet through a community education program.
Interpreted curriculum to be presented to classes.
Generated student enthusiasm for internet use.

Education
Certified Associate Android Developer2012
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science2011
Georgia Institute of Technology
Hobbies and Interests
I like to use my app development skills for good causes. Recently, I developed the entire donation pickup app for the Bikes for Kids charity. To stay active, I enjoy jogging in the fall and winter, and kayaking and paddle boarding during the summertime. I also enjoy dogs, so I volunteer twice a year as a foster home for dogs awaiting adoption. During the three-month commitment, I teach the dogs social skills, how to walk on a leash, and how to adapt to a home routine.

