Ravin saxena
Email ID: ****@gmail.com
Contact No. +91-**********
Career Objective
To get a challenging position where I can put all my experience and knowledge to give a significant growth to the organization.
Career Summary
A logical, analytical thinker with excellent managerial skills possesses 2+ experience as a Database Developer.
Extensive experience in writing stored procedures, functions and views.
Extensive experience in writing and tuning complex sub queries, SQL, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, and triggers.
Experience in requirement analysis, coding and testing various modules in a software development life cycle.
Expertise preparing report specifications and database designs to support reporting requirements.
Good experience in PL/SQL and ETL scripting and query optimization.
Personal Qualities
Strong logical and managerial skills.
Ability to produce the best result in pressure situations.
Unmatchable communication skills in writing and verbal both.
Ability to work individually as well as in the Group.
Technical Skills
Reporting Tools: Business Objects, Crystal Reports
Designing Tool: Erwin Data Modeler
Database: Oracle 10g/9i/8i, SQL Server 2005, MS Access
Languages: SQL, PL SQL, Oracle Developer 2000, C, C++, HTML, Java
Operating Systems: Windows95/98/2000/NT, MS DOS, UNIX
Other Tools: TOAD, SQL Loader, SQL Plus, Query Analyzer
Key Responsibilities Handled
Created Oracle Tables, Views, Constrains, Synonyms, Sequences.
Managed performance and tuning of SQL queries and fixed the slow running queries in production with utilities like Explain, Trace, and Stored Outlines.
Worked heavily with relationship database models, schemas & entity-relationship diagrams (ERMs) to create technical/system design documents.
Developed complex reports: multi-functioned, leveled and grouped, summary functionality in main reports providing detailed drill down through On Demand Sub-reports, dynamic link labeling, complex functions, cross-tabs, charts, shared variables, imported parameters and record sets from stored procedures, conditionally suppressed sections, error handling/messaging, clean and attractive designs, user friendly with instructional ToolTips.
Worked with team on customizing the abilities of Crystal Enterprise such as exporting, previewing, printing and emailing reports.
Load the data from MS Excel to Oracle Table and Oracle table to MS Excel.
Loaded the data using the SQL loader, Imports & UTL files based on file formats.
Achievements
Presented many papers to many universities on database management.
Received many awards and appreciation for the excellent work.
Employers
Working as Database Developer in ASD company from 2011 - present.
Worked as Database Developer in SJSJ Technology from 2010 - 2011.
Academia
B.Tech in computer Science Engineering
Diploma in Database Management
Personal Details
Languages Known: Hindi, English
Address: HBBSJBJ