Having 7 years of IT experience in Object Oriented development, testing, and support of Enterprise applications using J2EE technologies
Experienced in all phases of SDLC including analysis, design, coding and testing, expertise in integration using J2EE architecture
Extensive experience in Use cases development, Design, Object/Service modeling using UMLmodeling
Expertise in requirements and systems analysis through deployment using tollgate and agilemethodologies
Expertise in J2EE Technologies: JSF, XML, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, Java Script, Swings, Hibernate
Expertise in Tools: Eclipse, Rational Application Developer RAD
Expertise in software: Web sphere, Tomcat, Oracle, and Apache.
Responsible for designing, implementing, and maintaining complex software systems with stringent up-time requirements
Experienced in all phases of SDLC including analysis, design, coding and testing, expertise in integration using J2EE architecture
Experienced with J2EE standard compatible Application Servers includingWebLogic, IBM Web sphere, Apache Tomcat Deployment process and Integration.
Worked extensively in J2EE JSP, Servlets, JDBC , Struts, Spring, MVC, Hibernate, Java- Networking, RMI, Web Sphere, XML and well versed withOracle database, OS Concepts.
Well experienced with visual rapid application development tools like WebSphere Studio Application Developer WSAD , RAD, Eclipse and NetBeans.
Excellent handle in Struts2, Struts1.2 and Spring framework.
Experience using Spring Framework modules like Spring Core container forDependency Injection, Application context, Spring ORM and POJO objects.
Excellent handle in O/R mapping tools Ibatis, and Hibernate.
Experienced in design and connectivity of the database in DB2, Oracle and SQL Server 2000.
Hands on experience implementing Command, Data Access Objects, Value Objects,Business Delegate and Service Locator patterns.
Experience in implementing Agile methodology.
Excellent in project documentation, logical and analytical abilities.
Posses good inter personal skills and self-learning attitude

Languages

Core JAVA JDK 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6

Web Development

Servlets, JSP

Operating Systems

Windows, UNIX, LINUX

Development Tools

Eclipse 3.2, PL/SQL Developer tool 5.1, Toad 8.5

Servers

WebSphere, Apache Tomcat 5.9, Web Logic

Databases

Oracle 10gclient, 9i , MySQL Server 5.0., Sybase

Frameworks

Springs, Struts, Hibernate

Version Control

SVN

Involved in coding, testing and creation of functional specs of enhancement application.
Performing Code reviews with the team.
Preparing builds, deploy and Co-ordinate with the release management team to ensure that the proper process is followed during the release.
Providing End to End support for the testing activities during System Testing, UAT.
Maintain EAR and WAR in IBM WebSphere Apps server.
Maintain source code using SVN.
Providing End to End support for the testing activities during System Testing, UAT.
Developing the web applications using Core Java Threading and Collection .
Preparing technical documentation of the application.
Responsible for closing the backlog of production related issues
Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day direction to the project team and regular project status to the customer.
Review system requirements, establish specific solutions, and leading the efforts including programming and testing that culminate in client acceptance of the results.
Interacting with the clients for the new enhancements to be done.
Developing the web applications using Springs, Hibernate.
Preparing technical documentation of the application.
Responsible for closing the backlog of production related issues.
Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day direction to the project team and regular project status to the customer.
Interacting with the clients for the new enhancements to be done.

Involved in Analysis Design of the Reference Data Management.
Created and consumed WSDL for soap based web services.
Used RESTful web services to expose certain functionalities of the application.
Used JAX-RS plus jersey implementation for restful webservices.
Created hibernate-config.xml and configured the hibernate2.0 for the application.
Configured hibernate with spring.
Used Spring Dependency Injection feature for Bean wiring
Used Spring integration with struts and hibernate
Created Object-Relational mapping using Hibernate3.0.
Used Hibernate Query Language HQL to query the database for complex data.
Used Struts for Web tier development and used the Struts tag library.
Created screens by assembling Struts Tiles: header, footer, menu, body and defined common page layouts, menu layouts, and use them by passing lists of items and links. Reuse existing layouts using inheritance.
Implemented Jquery, Ajax, DOJO for asynchronous communication with server providing better user experience
JavaScript was used for the client side validations
Implemented Spring transaction management for some database transactions
Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug
Used Agile software development methodology on Spring framework.
Wrote Tiles Controller to control the display of Tiles.
Used mainly Dispatch Action to control the wizard navigation.
Used Singleton Pattern in manager objects to maintain only one object of them in memory.
Used log4j for writing into Application and Error logs.
Used LDAP for authentication.
Involved in fixing the security regarding issues.
Used Ant build tool.
Developed the front end using JSP and HTML, CSS
Involve in DAO Data Access Objects to retrieve data from database.
Architectural, technical and functional understanding of the interfacing modules. Involved in different activities like design, deployment, unit testing and test case creation. Build and release co-ordination for different modules.
Defect fixing of the errors caught in the development, unit testing and QA phase
Used Eclipse3.0 as IDE and Harvest as version control system.

The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionality.
Developed Form Beans, Action Class Action Mapping Using Struts.
Developed different screens Case, Accounting and Judicial Officers Screens converting into Struts frame work tags CCMS Module.
Analyzing the transactions with reduce the time for each transactions.
Analyzing the business logic implementation code for each transaction.
Developed the JSP pages and CSS to different screens to CCMS.
Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, Insertion and Deletion, Joins of Data from Oracle Databases
Clear Case has been used as the version control system.
Created View and Domains, Framework Jar files using Clear Case.
Each Transactions check status in Stress Database and Run SQL Scripts of each transactions meeting SLA for Transactions or Not.
Jrockit tool used for analyzing the transactions.
Analyzing the response buffer tables for each transaction.
Environments: Java, J2EE, JDBC,Struts, JSP, Servlets, EJB2.0, UNIX, putty6.0, weblogic10.3, Oracle10g, Eclipse, VPN client, TOAD, Clear Case, Jrockit 160 05

Design and develop user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript and HTML
Implemented unit tests and code reviews using Junit.
Worked creating a shared library of JavaScript, which can be shared across different applications
Developed additional UI Components using JSP and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX and JQuery based rich client to improve customer experience.
Worked on front-end validation through JavaScript and back-end validation using Spring Validation Classes
Implemented trade creation using HTML5, JavaScript validations and used AJAX for asynchronous communication.
Used CSS3 Borders and jQuery Menus as part of the UI navigation.
Migrating and deploy the application on Tomcat server.
Performed code review and test cases review for the developed features.
Designing the project flow in UML
Environment: Java/J2EE, MVC, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, AJAX, XML, UNIX, MVC, JDBC, JSF, SQL, Eclipse.

The basic framework is designed based on the MVC architecture for all core functionality. Developed Business logic using Spring and Hibernate
Developed different screens Dispatch Summary and Planning Screens in Transportation Module.
Developed the business logic using Spring and Hibernate different statistics and information in Dispatch Summary screen that will help them make better decisions for mangers
Developed the JSP pages and CSS to different screens to Transportation module in Fresh direct
Black hole property set to the Transportation Application
Worked on SQL Scripts for Data Access such as selection, insertion and deletion, joins of data from Oracle database
Plan generation different routers in Transportation Module.
Used Agile Development methodologies like Scrum
Used Junit for testing each class.
SVN has been used as the version control system.
Developed Dispatch controller using Spring MVC.
Converted Asset and Route and truck screens Extreme component into JMESA component.
Developed the business logic displayed data will be an employee's last name followed by a comma followed by their first initial followed by the first letter of their job type role in parentheses
Environment: Java ,J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Spring3.0, Hibernate3.0,Unix, putty6.0, weblogic10.3,Oracle10g,Eclipse ,VPN client, TOAD, JMESA, SVN.