
Back End Developer resume

Maxine Curry
Dayjob Limited
The Big Peg
120 Vyse Street
Birmingham B18 6NF
England
T: 0044 121 638 0026
E: info@dayjob.com


PERSONAL SUMMARY

Maxine has a burning desire to put together well-written code that helps to create advanced applications which are fit for purpose, functionally correct and meets the user’s precise needs. She has a track record of using modern technologies to bring software products to life. Her key strengths include being able to use web based systems that create a highly interactive user experience. On a personal level she is loaded with energy and passion. During her career she has previously worked for well-known established companies as well as newly launched start-ups. Right now she would like to join a company where there is a culture of encouragement, respect and teamwork.

CAREER HISTORY

BACK END DEVELOPER - Start Date - Present
Employers name - Location
Responsible for playing a key role in the designing, building, maintaining and testing of back-end based applications.

Duties;

Working with other developers in delivering internal and external back-end applications.
Supporting the front-end development team in every way.
Making suggestions on how to improve current back-end applications.
Writing clean and maintainable code.
Working with remote teams on complex issues.
Involved in every aspect of the application development process, from early design to testing and launch of the product.
Co-ordinating with other developers on the delivery of application code.
Improving existing scripts.
Reporting directly to the head of the web development team.
Coming up with robust solutions that meet client requirements.
Interacting with clients and stakeholders on a daily basis.
Developing new functionality on demand.
Extending business logic within existing back-end services.
Mentoring junior developers and monitoring their work.
Creating new products and developing existing products.
Setting up and maintaining Linux servers.
Working with testing teams to identify and solve both development and live issues.
Communicating with key decision makers within the company on a daily basis.

JOB TITLE - Start Date - End Date
Employers name - Location

JOB TITLE - Start Date - End Date
Employers name - Location


KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES

Professional

Knowledge of multiple programming languages.
Excellent coding skills.
Experience using SOLID principles with Object-Oriented programming.
Real team player who can get along with people from all backgrounds.
Able to quickly learn new technologies.
Possess a degree in Computer Science and further qualifications in software development.
Good knowledge of Relational Databases, especially MySQL.
Previous exposure to Perl, C++, PHP and web server applications such as Apache, Nginx and Lighttp.

Personal

Can work with a high level of responsibility and autonomy.
Hands on and not afraid to get hands dirty.
Available for immediate start.
Aptitude to learn new things quickly and effectively.
Can perform well in a fast-paced and deadline driven environment.

AREAS OF EXPERTISE

Code documenting
Project management
Data storage
Problem identification
User acceptance


ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONS

University name  -  Degree details               Study Dates
College name      -  Qualifications                Study Dates
School name       -  Subjects / Grades          Study Dates


REFERENCES

Available on request.