Objective
Innovative, creative and a proven team player, I possess a Tech Degree in Front End Development and have 6 years building developing and managing websites, applications and programs for various companies. I seek to secure the position of Senior Front End Developer with Orbits International and hope to share my skills, expertise and experience with your team and valuable clients.

Strengths
Tech Degree in Front End Development
Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science
Proficient in HTML5, CSS 3, Javascript, AJAX
Well versed with modern Javascript libraries – billboard.js, Flubber, Devicon, UI Kitten and Popmotion
Adept in using Front End frameworks – Angular, Ember, React
Keen understanding of responsive design principles
Experienced in using Functional and Unit Testing methods
Creative problem solver
Possess a knack for teamwork and comfortable working cross functional
Member of World Organization of Webmasters since 2015

Work Experience
Lead Front End Developer, 2015-present
Concept One, Los Angeles, CA

Responsibilities:

Designs, develops and relaunches responsive websites and e-commerce sites of clients.
An addressed issue on checkout counter terminations and improved conversion rate by 116%.
Builds codes for Shadowboxes, Slider Carousals, Tickers, Rotating Headers, Validation and JS animations.
Executes full-stack website launches specializing in front-end features, browser manipulation, and cross-browser compatibility.
Oversees creation and maintenance of front-end standard documents
Coordinates with copywriters and graphic artists on integration of images, icons, banners, audio and other features of the website

Front End Developer, 2013-2014
Think Tank Inc., San Francisco, CA

Responsibilities:

Launched 30 new website ad blogs incorporating the latest social media applications.
Focused on developing websites using NoteTabPro, WS_FTP Pro, PuTTY and Dreamweaver.
Upgraded systems application for maximum speed and scalability; average download speed of clients’ websites was 2.39 seconds which is faster than the 9.83 second average of top Google sites.
Managed multiple projects with a team of backend engineers and QA from planning to website launch.
Built and installed reusable codes and libraries for future reference
Presented web-site mock-ups to clients to give them better visual of the end product and to ensure that all parameters were met.

Junior Front End Developer, 2011-2012
Online Factory, San Francisco, CA

Responsibilities:

Optimized front-end efficiency by shifting the blogs over to WordPress and brand-associated them to the main site.
Created 75 multi-variant AB tests with increased win rate of 40%
Resolved design issues through root cause analysis and performed data cleanups
Utilized HTML, CSS, Javascript, SASS, Post-CSS, NPM, Node.js, Grunt, Yeoman and Git for e-commerce site development.
Coordinated with team of UX designers to create new Web Content Management system


Education
Front End Development – Online Tech Degree
Treehouse Tech Inc.
2010-2011

Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Science
University of California, Los Angeles, CA
2006-2010; GPA